Welcome back.
Let's start with the first topic continuous integration continuous integration.
Is this blue box over here.
Is a devolvement practice where developers integrate code into a shared repository frequently preferably
several times a day and each integration can then be verified by an automated build an automated tests.
Now let's unpack this statement so it makes sense in plain English continuous integration is a way for
developers to use a shared repository like get a job and we know all about how by now and this shared
repository is going to be used throughout the day.
Each pull requests of a bug fix or a new feature must go through an automatic Builth step that may include
things like tests and Linked-In to make sure that all the tests pass all our unit tests pass.
Maybe we haven't made any lending or syntax error and that everything builds our project builds as expected.
We make sure that the code is compatible with the rest of the codebase.
Now one of the key benefits of integrating regularly is that you can detect errors quickly and locate
them more easily because each change that is introduced is going to be small and it's going to pinpoint
the specific change that introduce a defect.
If we make a PR or a pull request on get Hobb we run the tests and those tests fail.
We know right away that that PR needs to get fixed and even if it introduces a bug after it's been merged
if a bug suddenly appears.
Well we know that this poll requests most likely did it because it was recently introduced.
So what's the point of all this.
The point is for companies to make sure that code from many developers has as little as possible bugs
and that it stays consistent.
As much as possible.
Now I'm going to take you through a set up of this so you can actually see what I mean when I say run
a build step like tests and builds.
Don't worry we're going to get to that.
I want you to just have this point across though that this process makes sure that code of the individual
developers meet a certain standard and that this way no matter how big our teams we can make sure that
individual developers work don't divert from the original codebase.
We keep things in line and in check and continuous integration is that when you combine the process
of making a PR often infrequently with automated testing that is tests that run automatically and you
include things as automatic building and then other developers checking the PR.
And then finally merging it by doing this you avoid the integration hell that usually happens when people
wait for release day to merge everything.
Let's say the day before the big release everybody that has been working on a feature everybody on different
features is going to merge all at once and again without actually facing the problem.
It's going to be hard to explain this.
So we're actually going to implement it in our robo friends up.
But I want you to just remember this continuous integration puts a great emphasis on testing automation
to check that the application is not broken.
Whenever a new commit or a PR pull request is integrated into the main branch you see over here that
we make a PR the tests automatically run for us and we run the build and make sure that everything passes
and that's automatically done to make sure that before we merge before somebody reviews our pool request
those tests pass.
All right let's go to the next one.
The next one is this yellow square that over Lap's continuous integration called continuous delivery
and continuous delivery is the practice of keeping your code base deployable at any point.
Beyond making sure that your application in this blue part are integrated into the main branch we have
a few extra steps.
You see it has to have all the configurations necessary to push in production whenever we want continuous
delivery.
Is the idea that we're always going to keep things ready so that when we want a delivery product deployed
to production maybe have an update to our product we can do so and we have this extra step of acceptance
tests such as we want this feature to do this and you might have somebody that's a cute way or a quality
analyst or a who is doing tests or a product owner that checks to make sure that all the features are
implemented and then manually a developer or a team lead clicks on a button that says deploy to production
continuous delivery.
As you can see is an extension of continuous integration to make sure that you can release new changes
to your customers quickly in a sustainable way.
This means that on top of having automated your testing you also have to automate the release process
so that you can deploy your production.
As I said before at any point in time in theory with continuous delivery delivery process in your company
you can decide to release daily weekly every night or whatever suits your business requirement.
But the idea of continuous delivery is that ideally just like we do with continuous integration and
making small but often cars and merging our poll requests and features as often as possible with continuous
delivery.
It works really really well.
When you start doing small release batches you might have noticed on your phone how your apps get always
updated you have new patches new versions almost every week and they practice continuous delivery of
making small incremental changes to the app that are easy to troubleshoot in case there's a problem.
They have to go back and fix things.
All right.
It's not just the two.
I know the title says see-I CD and I light a bit.
There's one more and that is continuous deployment it's closely related to continuous delivery and it
is referring to keeping your application deployable at any point in time just like we have with continuous
delivery.
But there's one small difference and like continuous delivery continuous deployment goes straight into
production.
That is there's no manual developer or Team Lead or manager that clicks abandoned says all right all
the acceptance tests have passed.
Everything checks out.
I'm going to deploy to production continues deployment is a philosophy where you say if acceptant tests
are automatically passed well automatically it's going to deploy to production and you might have noticed
continuous delivery.
When you look at GET HOT pages with get pages such as the robo friends redux we see that we have our
app deployed.
And any time I merge into to master a new version maybe I want to title this to something different
we might want to make some changes here maybe change the title maybe changed a color but any time I
merge into master here this link is going to be updated because it references whatever Zen Master and
this is similar to continuous deployment.
Every time it's merged and all my tests pass while whatever the users see or is deployed is automatically
going to be changed as well.
Now why am I teaching Google this.
It's because continuous deployment and continuous delivery have developed as best practices for keeping
your application in a good state in a deployable state at any point.
And this is just good practice to have.
This allows your team to move fast while keeping high quality standards that can be checked automatically.
You see a lot of top companies practice this way of developing their codebase as a matter of fact.
If it's your first couple of days at a large company you'll probably be getting introduced to this process
so you're familiar with it.
So just remember this continues deployment goes one step further than the continuous delivery with this
practice.
Every change that passes all stages of your production what we call pipeline this process is released
to your customers.
There's no human intervention and only a failed to test will prevent a new change to be deployed to
production.
Now once again this is going to be really really confusing if you see this for the first time.
We're going to actually build a pipeline a big step a continuous integration step so that you understand
what the benefits are and how to do it.
Are your company however let's talk a little bit more about this in the next video.
I'll see in that one by.